Good morning everyone.
Thank you for coming
out early on a Friday,
especially after all the
partying and so on last night.
I'm Jon Callas.
I'm a security privateer in CoreOS and
I'm going to be talking about the next
generation cryptographic services.
What we're going to be talking about
is the exciting changes that we've
made to our cryptographic architecture.
This is the first time that
we have reworked cryptography
in a decade on Mac OS.
And the first time that we've
done a lot of work on iOS as well.
We're going to be talking
about the changes that we've
made to the existing APIs.
We're going to be spending a lot of time
talking about our new transform API.
We're going to talk about our
transform library and how to
create your own custom transforms
to build on top of that yourself.
So I want to get started off
right away talking about CDSA,
which is the current
cryptographic system.
It is the common data
security architecture.
We are deprecating in Lion CDSA.
There are a number of
reasons that we're doing it.
It's an open group standard.
It dates in its architecture
to the late 1990s.
It appeared with Mac OS X and
was developed through the
first couple of releases.
Being what it is,
it comes from an era in which
there was exportable crypto,
pluggable this, tunable that.
It had lots of features
that nobody ever used.
Also,
one of the reasons why it's good to have
standards is that everybody uses them.
And we were one of the very few
people who actually used CDSA.
So that meant that we had to support
all of the baggage of a standard
without having the advantage that
lots of people were using it.
Also, it only ever appeared on Mac OS.
It was not brought to iOS.
And a lot of the reasons why
it wasn't brought to iOS were
pretty much the same thing.
It was big.
It wasn't used very well.
So we are deprecating it.
Now, deprecated doesn't mean
that it's cancelled.
It's still there.
It'll still be around
for a release or so.
Start migrating away from
it if you're using it.
If you're doing any new projects,
Take a serious look at
what we're doing now.
There are also a few parts of
the security framework that had
strict dependencies on CDSA.
We have deprecated those APIs as well.
If you get a deprecation warning on it,
go to the H file.
We have put in the H files hints
on what you should be using.
There will be a number of places as well
that merely recompiling will fix things
for you because we changed the types
around and the new type and the new
call itself will all match up correctly.
When we set about working for a new API,
we sat down and we came
up with requirements.
What did we want it to be?
Because we want to have a crypto API that
is designed for the decades ahead.
We want this to be something
that will be less code.
We want it to be faster.
We want it to be faster not
only in its operation but in
your using it as a programmer.
We want it to be able to do concurrency.
While crypto is not really a major
problem in any sort of algorithm
anymore because CPUs are fast enough,
concurrency is a real issue.
We're getting more CPUs all the time.
There's hardly anything left that
we have that has a single CPU in it.
And, you know, right now there are
laptops with eight CPUs,
four cores but eight CPUs.
So concurrency is a really big issue.
Also,
when you start looking at what crypto is,
it's not just a few
mathematical algorithms.
You know, yeah, it's your ciphers,
it's your hash functions,
but then you find yourself
doing compression as well.
You start storing certificates
in LDAP databases.
You start doing rest
calls across the network.
You code things up in XML or JSON and
pretty soon crypto starts looking
an awful lot like everything else.
So we wanted to have a way that you could
do secure programming and all of what
you need to do no matter what it is.
The result of that is our
new architecture here.
It has common crypto,
our new transform API,
and the security framework at the top.
Starting with them,
Common Crypto is our low-level API.
It's basic core algorithms.
It's really what you would
think of as a crypto toolkit.
Its documentation is man pages.
It's pretty serious C programming.
It's also the foundation that
we're going to be doing for our
FIPS 140 validations from here on.
Our idea is that if
you code common crypto,
and that includes our own code
that codes to common crypto,
then you get to inherit our validations.
So we want it to be small,
we want it to be tight,
we want it to be the real foundation and
framework of the rest of the building
in an architectural metaphorical sense.
It may not be new to you,
Common Crypto existed in Snow Leopard.
When we looked at what we
wanted for a very low-level API,
Common Crypto was sufficiently
close to what it was going to have
to be no matter what that we said,
hey, let's just start working from there.
In Lion, we recoded the internals and we
took that recoded Lion Common Crypto
and moved it to iOS and did
more work on it from there.
I'll also note that just this Tuesday,
we got all of the NIST algorithm
certificates for all of the
algorithms in Common Crypto for iOS.
So that's not just, oh yes,
we want to do FIPS on it.
No, really, we're doing FIPS on it.
One of the major advantages you have in
using Common Crypto is that you can say,
oh, I want to do AES.
And Common Crypto knows what hardware
you're on and it picks the right AES.
If you happen to be on one of the new i5,
i7 Intel machines,
it will use the AES NI instructions.
If you're on an older computer,
it will use a vector optimized system.
On iOS, we also have vector
optimized implementations of
several of the algorithms.
The idea is that code here for your raw
stuff and we're going to pick the best
way for that to run and you don't have
to think about it because that's one of
the big problems with crypto is how many
fiddly bits there are and we're going
to select the right fiddly bits for you.
At the very top,
we have the security framework.
It is a core foundation based API.
As I said before,
we've deprecated the parts
that were dependent upon CDSA.
There are corresponding ones that
have been replaced what's there or we
migrated the data types directly for you.
And that has keychains, trust models,
certificate processing, things like that.
It also has some
relatively high-level APIs,
which I'll show you a
little bit more about later.
Now in the middle,
there's transforms and they're
brand new and they're built
on Grand Central Dispatch.
Grand Central Dispatch is incredible.
If you haven't been using it,
you need to.
Just about everything that we're doing
going forward revolves around blocks,
revolves around Grand Central Dispatch.
Grand Central Dispatch makes it so that
when you are writing threaded code,
you don't have to think
about the threads.
You think about work units,
you think about queues,
and that's all you have to do.
What we did with transforms was that
we took Grand Central Dispatch and
turned it into a data flow architecture.
So when you use transforms,
you think about...
Parts of the data and steps that it goes
through to go through whatever you want.
The advantage of this is that it
looks a lot like a generic function
because you can have an encrypt
transform that does the right sorts of
encryption based upon the parameters
and whatever the parameters are,
it just does the right thing.
I have an example that will make
that a little more clear later.
It's also a general purpose
concurrency mechanism.
Anything that you have that has
work that can be broken up into
small things works with transforms.
Now to get to the gotchas on this,
Transforms are only Lion,
they are not yet iOS.
Common Crypto is in both Lion and iOS,
and as I said,
the iOS version is in fact a
successor to the Lion version.
Normally when we give new APIs,
we like to have the full thing in place
when we do deprecation of an old one.
We didn't do that this time.
And the reason that we didn't
do that is we're really
pleased with what we've done.
We want you to have it and work
with it and tell us what you need
before we have everything in place
because it really is very nice
and the other one was kind of old.
So the major parts that
are really missing are some
certificate handling details.
There are other rough edges.
Please tell us on bugreporter.apple.com.
You're going to hear me say that a lot.
Tell us what you need.
We schedule everything that we do
based upon what's in Bug Reporter.
And if you tell us what's there,
even if it's a duplicate of
what other people have told,
so don't think, oh,
somebody else has probably said this.
If five people tell us this,
and three people tell us that,
it gives us more support in figuring out
what gets done before something else.
So let me go on and talk
more about transforms.
Transforms are all about taking small
changes and putting them together.
It's not just for crypto.
It's for any sort of
sequential processing.
You could, for example,
use transforms to take two
different RSS feeds and combine
them together into a mashup.
You could do something else
like code optimization.
You know, code optimizers work by having
little things that each know a few
things all stream through a code,
modifying as it goes on.
These are all the sorts of workflows
that work well for transforms.
To give you a quick non-crypto example,
let's imagine that we
want to do a mashup.
And we want to do a mashup where
we want to take cat videos and we
want to take earthquake videos and
we want to mash them up together.
You're going to have a transform
that goes out and finds cats.
that goes out and finds earthquakes.
They each run in parallel.
And then a third transform
that combines them together
and there you have your mashup.
And that's the sort of idea that we
have of things run in parallel and
things run in small changes where you
don't have to think about the entire
thing in the part that you have.
I'll give you a few analogies on this.
My usual one and favorite one is
these are like Unix pipelines.
If you've ever done any
sort of shell programming,
you know, you sort, you grep, you TR,
you awk, you do these things and
you pipe them all together.
Transforms are really a lot like that.
They're small units that work
together to give you a bigger whole.
The major differences are that
they revolve around data chunks,
core foundation, not bytes.
You know, Unix programming is,
it's all bytes.
These things are all routines
rather than processes.
Okay, really they're blocks,
but you know, blocks are just routines
with frosting and sprinkles.
And when you do transforms,
it's really easy to have multiple
gazintas and multiple gozaudas.
You can connect transforms
together with a digraph.
And as long as that digraph makes sense,
it'll all work correctly.
Shell programming really
ends up being limited.
There are a few exceptions.
You know, there's the T command.
But other than that,
you're really only doing things linearly.
You can do some really nice,
very complex things with transforms.
They're also a lot like audio units.
If you've ever used audio units,
used GarageBand, put things together,
they also work on a sequence of changes.
They're audio focused rather than
being a general purpose system
and their main focus is to be
isochronous because it's audio.
We're not isochronous,
we're not real time,
but we are concurrent.
And they're also kind
of like Quartz Composer,
where you have an image,
you want to do a sequence of changes
to the image to get something else.
Again, transforms are a general purpose
mechanism and they don't have a visual
programming model like Quartz Composer,
but it's like that.
That gets you the idea of
what we're doing with this.
So it's data-driven.
That's one of the really cool things.
It's really easy to think
about data-driven programming.
It all revolves around core foundation.
If we didn't have core foundation,
we'd have to create something like it.
We need to have the sorts of arrays,
dictionaries, descriptor-based data,
so on and so forth.
And by using core foundation,
not only do we not have to do the work,
but you get toll-free bridging to Cocoa.
So anything that I talk
about where I'll say,
you know, CFData, CFError,
you can translate that
in your head into NS.
And as a matter of fact,
I sometimes pronounce CF NS myself.
Lastly, this isn't a kernel interface.
So, sorry.
Now let me give you an
example of how they work.
So let's say you have a kernel.
The transform is an object.
And like an object,
it is its own self-contained thing.
You talk to the transforms
with what we call attributes.
And attributes are just named slots.
They're named with a string.
They're like a dictionary.
As a matter of fact, underneath,
they are a dictionary.
You can have your attributes
be whatever makes sense.
So for crypto,
key might be an obvious attribute
that you would give this transform its
key through an attribute named key.
If you were doing RSS,
you might have one called Article.
If you were doing audio or video,
you might do it with media.
Now in a generic sense and thinking
of it kind of like the Unix pipelines,
you have input and output and
those are your equivalent of
standard in and standard out.
The data input comes in on the input one,
it goes out through output and
goes on from there to the next
transform and on down the line.
To give you an example,
we start with some data and we send the
data through the input attribute to the
first transform where it does its work,
sends it on its output and its
output is connected to the input
of the next one and it does work
and sends them on down the line.
And all of these things
can be running in parallel.
And as a matter of fact,
they will be running in parallel usually.
What goes on inside of them.
One of the fun things that we've
done with this is that you can
take a transform set that you use,
you set it up, you can save it,
you can externalize it,
and you can then bring it back in.
So if you have gone to the
trouble of doing some complex
transform set to do your work,
you can save it off, bring it in,
and use it again.
Also,
because we're using core foundation,
it works equally well
with C or Objective C.
NS objects are easily castable
through toll-free bridging to CF ones.
And again, it's all blocks.
Blocks, blocks, blocks.
The attributes that we have get connected
with connections to make the pipes.
And they're like Unix pipes,
they're I/O flows.
And when you write to an attribute
that's connected to somewhere else,
it automatically flows
from one to another.
And this allows transforms to be able
to focus their attention on exactly
what they do and have everything
work in a larger system together.
I've probably been
thinking ahead and said,
"Hmm, if you're going to have concurrent
things doing lots of stuff in parallel,
that means that you're going to have
some issues with what happens when one
of them outproduces what its consumer is,
and so how do I keep from having
maximal data explosion and so on?" Well,
we've got flow control in two ways.
There's implicit flow control
and explicit flow control.
The implicit flow control
is really just like I/O.
Every attribute has an input queue,
and if that input queue gets overflowed,
too many things get written to it,
the writer stalls.
It's just like when you write
to a file or you write to a pipe
and nobody's read from it yet,
you block until it finishes.
So that's a really nice
programming model because you
don't have to change your head.
It works just like a pipe.
It works just like a file.
Explicit flow control is done through
something that we call pushback.
On any given attribute,
you can push back one
CF object on top of it.
And that permits you to say,
I'm not ready yet.
So if I take my example where
I'm doing cats and earthquakes,
if I've got cats coming in
because there are lots of cats
and not as many earthquakes,
I can push back the cats until
I get an earthquake come in and
then combine the two and go on.
Attributes are asynchronous,
they can fire at any time,
but there is a serialized queue
inside of every transform that within
a transform it acts like a process.
This is an important thing to do
because if we don't have that,
if everything is truly asynchronous,
then you have to worry about
concurrency issues with yourself.
Inside of a transform,
it behaves like a process does.
And that's what that
serialization queue does,
so that you don't have to worry about,
"I'm reading from this attribute
when another one comes in." It's not
going to come in until you're done.
There are five special
attributes that we have.
I've already told you
about input and output.
They're the equivalent of
standard in and standard out.
All the transforms have to have names.
That's necessary for when we let
you save them and restore them.
We name them with something random.
You can set to the label attribute if
you want to name a transform yourself.
There's no real reason to,
but it's there.
If you write to the abort attribute of
any transform from inside or outside,
that signals an error.
That's pulling the emergency
stop cord on the train.
It all comes to a halt after that.
The debug attribute is there
for logging information.
The data that we deal with in transforms
is most strictly all a CF type ref,
which is a CF anything.
You can write any
CF thing to any attribute.
You can type sniff it.
You can do whatever you want for all
sorts of really interesting calculations.
Realistically, almost everything you're
going to do is CFData.
Particularly for our
implementation right now,
we revolve around CFData because we
did in fact start building this as
being a data processing system and
a crypto data processing system.
CFData are the most first
class of all things,
but any CF object can be put onto things.
Also, attributes can have multiple
outgoing connections.
This is really useful not only for
the times when you need to have
output data going to two places,
but it means that you can have
debugging monitors connected to
an attribute so that you could see
what's coming out of anything if you
are having to do your own debugging.
It also means that you could feed these
things into progress bars or other
UI elements where you want to have a tap
on what's going on on the system itself.
It's a really nice little
feature that you can have that.
So that's just one thing
to remember as well.
So I'm going to run through some code.
And I'm going to do a
really simple one first.
I mean, because if you think about
something that you might do,
you might say, read from a file,
compress it, encrypt it,
and then base 64 it.
And you'd base it 60 for it because,
like it or not,
the internet in most cases wants
its data to be 7-bit clean.
And there are just all sorts of
places that unrestricted binary data
will give somebody a heart attack.
So there are lots and lots of web
programming cases where you need to take
your binary data and base 60 for it.
So here's a code sample of how
to do this with a transform.
My first line is a CFData.
It's my input.
It's where I, you know,
it's what I'm supposed to encode.
I also have a CFError.
We do all of our error
reporting through CFErrors.
And again, if you're used to NSErrors,
CFErrors and NSErrors are close cousins.
We do them slightly differently than
some people who do NSErrors because
we have you set the error ref
to null and we return back
something if there is an error.
If that error variable
ever goes non-null,
it means you have an error.
So anyway,
we're creating a transform here.
And this is an encode transform.
You can see that we have a
constant for base64 encoding.
There are other encodings as well.
For example, there's zlib encoding.
And we get our coding transform.
And in this line,
you can see that there is a long constant
for the string input in all caps.
Much better to use the constant,
but that's really all that it is.
And we're writing the data
onto the input attribute.
To tell that transform,
here's what we want you to operate on.
And then we call sec transform execute.
And that takes the transform,
it would return an
error in the CFErrorRef,
and a CFData will come back to us that
is a CFData of the resulting data.
That's it.
I mean, that's all you have to do now.
So let's go one more.
Let's do two transforms.
We're going to do encrypt and base64.
First parameter that we
have here is a SecKeyRef.
That's a key coming from
the security framework.
This also is where this works
a lot like a generic function.
It also is something
of a universal context.
If you are used to CDSA,
you know that CDSA has all sorts of
things you've got to keep hold of.
And we've reduced that tremendously.
There's not that many
things to keep hold of here.
That key can be an AES key.
It could be an RSA key.
It could be an elliptic curve key.
It could have padding.
It could have other things.
I don't need to know and I don't care.
I just know that it is a key
that somebody set up for me.
Like before, we have the data that
we're going to work on.
And note here, we create a transform that
is our encryption transform.
An error would come back
if there was a problem.
Like before,
I'm going to have the encoding transform.
Now in this new little thing,
we're creating a transform group.
And a transform group is the handle.
When you have a chain of them,
you've got to have a handle.
Think of it as it's the
six pack container that you
put all the transforms in.
It exists to have a place
where we know what's going on,
where all of the references
to everything will be held,
where we know where the graph of them is.
And it's, you know, it's just the holder.
This line is where all the magic happens.
To go through it quickly,
I have the encryption transform and its
output attribute and I have the encoding
transform and its input attribute.
And so I'm kind of drawing a line just
like I did on the little graph from
output to the input of the next one and
I'm telling it what group I want them
in and where to bring back any errors.
Like before, I take the start data,
I put it onto the input of the first one,
And in this particular case,
I'm going to do an async call.
The async call has the group and
it also has this little abbreviated
bit of code that I apologize for,
but I wanted it to fit
on only one screen.
That's a block that's
going to get called.
And that block is going
to have three parameters,
one of which is going to
be a CFDataRef that holds
the intermediate result.
Well, sorry, the partial result.
A CFError in case there was an
error that happened in the middle.
And a Boolean flag for whether
or not this is the last one.
And that block will get called
every time there's a chunk go by.
It's entirely possible that you
could get that called only once.
It could be called one
time for every byte.
Now, you know,
in this particular example,
it's probably only going
to get called once.
But, you know, if you look at this,
you can think how you would do it
if you wanted to compress and then
encrypt and then base 64 or read a file,
compress.
You just create a couple more transforms,
connect them together,
and particularly in the
case of reading from a file,
you would have little chunks going on.
The transform library that we've
created for you for Lion has a
bunch of basic cryptography in it.
It's got encryption and decryption.
It's got digital signatures,
sign and verify.
It's got hashes in HMACS,
it's got key wrapping,
and it's also got string to key,
which will take like a password and
produce a key out of that password.
It's also got three flavors of encoding.
Base 32, Base 64, and Zlib.
And you can use any of them, all of them.
It's also got some miscellaneous
things like file reading.
So you can take a file or a stream and
put it into a transform pipeline and have
it work on that entire file or stream
in the background for you and just let
you know when something new comes in.
So next I want to talk
about custom transforms,
which is how to create ones of your own.
We have sample code
for you in the headers.
If you go to seccustomtransform.h,
there is a complete annotated
example for the Caesar cipher.
That's the root end cipher where,
you know, it just adds end to every byte.
But the whole transform is there in the
comments and you can take a look at it.
You'll see all of the things
that I'll be talking about
in there and how we did them.
And it's a nice example for knowing
how to do a lot of basic transform.
You know,
we ourselves have essentially cut
and paste from that as you go along.
When transforms run,
they have a bunch of blocks that
correspond to their own lifecycle events.
And when the transform
has an event occur,
that block executes.
When you make your own transform,
you start with the null transform,
which you can think of as being
kind of like cat or like T since
it's got multiple outputs,
that would just pass data through.
And you customize that one by
adding your own blocks to whatever
transform events you want to override.
And so when that event occurs,
your block will execute.
Now one of the really cool
things about this is that these
overrides are not just once.
You can re-override at any time.
So that means that you can start
off with a reasonably generic
implementation and you can say,
aha, I know now that I could use my
optimized implementation and just
put the optimized block in place
and everything keeps running.
You can also do something rather complex
like a state machine by doing your state
transitions by having every state put
the new state block into the right place.
The advantage of this is you can
do a lot of really complex high
level things where you can make
this look like a easy to use,
fun object oriented system and still
have extraordinarily high performance
because blocks really are just
routines and it really is little more
than a function call to get to them.
Now the main thing,
there are two things that you do mostly.
The first one is the attribute
set notification event.
And this is when somebody
writes to an attribute,
this block will fire.
There are two ways that you can do it.
You can either give a named attribute,
like for example,
key is a perfectly fine named
attribute that you would want
to catch that one in specific.
Or you can have a catch all
handler that hits anything.
If you have both, you know,
if I have both key and the catchall
and somebody sets my key attribute,
only the key will execute,
not the generic.
But the generic one lets you do something
so that if you want to know any time
any attribute is done or a protocol
that you would have that would have
names that you wouldn't know in advance,
you can handle that with
the generic handler.
The other main one that
everybody does is process data.
And this is a shortcut
for a handler on input
The nice thing about processed data is
that it pre-vets everything for you.
You know that what has
come in is a CFData.
Also, when you return from
the process data block,
whatever you return gets
passed on down the line.
So you don't have to
figure any of that out.
We do in the transform machinery
that bookkeeping for you.
So it means that you can
write the process data
routine as I get an input in,
I return an output out.
And that's all I have to do is
that small little juggling act.
A null gets sent to you as
the equivalent of end of file.
And if you return null,
that's passing an end to file
on down the line as well.
There are two other main
lifecycle functions.
Execute starting, which gets called right
before everything goes.
And this would be the place where
you would allocate buffers if you
need to open files or do anything.
State that you need to do something.
You start that up and execute starting.
And that's also one of the
advantages of it that you
don't have to test every time.
You know that this is
essentially we're starting now,
so I need to prep.
There's also finalize,
which is the corresponding
one that everything is done.
You're about to be released,
so you get rid of all of your extra
things that you might have had.
That's pretty much all you
have to do to write one.
And I'm going to give an example
now of code size comparison.
On this I'm going to have on the
left a program that we wrote using
CDSA and on the right we're going
to have the equivalent program
that we wrote using transforms.
This is a workload that we
created that combined reading,
coding, encryption, and so on.
And here's the source code of each one.
You can see them going by.
And you can also see that we
met one of our main goals.
112 lines for the transforms whereas
1100 for CDSA, 112 for the transforms.
That's a huge improvement in size,
a huge improvement in just the
simplicity of writing that.
We've got a speed
comparison movie as well.
In this, on the right,
you'll see Activity Monitor.
We ran this on a four core Mac Pro.
So it's eight CPUs, four core Mac Pro,
and when we start running that program,
You'll see it go.
Note that it runs kind of like
what you would expect from
a late 1990s architecture.
It's not really terribly
efficiently using the CPUs.
It's only using the A-side
of every hyperthreaded pair.
And that read a whole big file
and did our workload on it.
Now here is the transform
version of that,
the 112 line version of it.
Now when I run this, don't blink.
So there it goes.
If you look at that.
That's GCD.
I mean, GCD is what gives us
all eight CPUs using,
all eight CPUs being filled to capacity.
I'm going to do that again
because always when I do this,
somebody blinks.
[Transcript missing]
10.1% of the code and over seven
times performance improvement.
Arthur Clarke said that any
sufficiently advanced technology
is indistinguishable from magic.
And my favorite magicians
are Penn and Teller.
So in that vein,
I'm going to tell you how we did this.
There are two things that we did
to make this be a better demo.
One of which was that we
picked an 8 CPU system.
If we'd done this on a two-core system,
it would have run twice as fast.
I mean, you know,
it's rather obvious actually.
But we picked 8 CPUs.
And if we'd picked 24 CPUs,
it might have run up
to 8 or a little more.
But it wouldn't have run a
whole lot faster than that
because there wasn't enough work.
And that's the other thing that we
did was that we picked a workload
that would fill an 8 CPU system.
The really impressive thing
about this is that most times
when you get a new programming
system that is more high level,
more easy to use,
you end up with bottlenecks and
slowdowns at execution time.
One of the great things about transforms
is that the more work you throw at it,
the better you take your workload and
break it up into small components,
the better that GCD can figure out
how to schedule it in parallel.
And that's a huge change from what
we're used to before is that when you
think about breaking your problem apart,
it's better to break it up into small
pieces rather than large pieces.
Because every one of those small
pieces can be running somewhere.
Assuming, of course,
you've got enough CPUs.
To summarize transforms,
we started off with a
way to speed up crypto.
We needed to have a
A better crypto system.
And what we produced for crypto
really is a general purpose
concurrent programming system.
You can use this for just about anything.
We built it on the shoulders of
the giants who went before us.
The masterful work that went in
Core Foundation and GCD is really
what lets us be able to do this.
It also gives abstractions that
let you reduce code size of the
problems that you're solving and
also mean that you can get order of
magnitude improvements in the speed,
assuming of course you have
the right workload for it.
But it's fast and it's small
and what's not to like there?
Last thing to talk about
that I have is OpenSSL.
This is probably not news to
people because if you've been using
any of the developer previews,
you've probably seen this.
We're deprecating the OpenSSL dialyps.
And I want to repeat that again.
There are two major reasons
why we're doing this.
One of them is that OpenSSL does not have
a stable application binary interface.
They didn't design it
to be used in dial-ins.
The data structures change in
between extremely minor releases.
As an example, when we upgraded
OpenSSL from 0.98q to 0.98r,
there were a number of people who
had their programs break because
OpenSSL had changed some internal data
structures and things flipped around.
It just isn't designed for that.
Also, we need a FIPS 140 platform that
is stable and under our control.
You need to have dialybs to be able to do
A FIPS 140 validation,
you can't just do it on static libraries.
And we need to have something that
we're using ourselves for that.
So maybe you'll want to migrate.
You know, maybe you won't.
If you are using our stuff,
if you're primarily a
Mac OS or iOS programmer,
Migrating might be a good thing to do.
There's a lot of
advantages that we've got.
[Transcript missing]
A special instruction said, "Oh,
what version of vector
registers do I happen to have?
We'll do that for you and
we'll give you the right one."
We give you the small code size,
we give you the concurrency,
we give you the easy programming.
There's also,
you want to inherit our evaluations.
If you're calling into our code,
it's essentially validated
because you're calling our
validated module as they call it.
This is what we're doing ourselves.
We're migrating everything
in Mac OS and iOS away from
OpenSSL towards our architecture.
And if you want to do this and we
have not given you yet what you need,
tell us.
Bugreporter.apple.com, tell us.
This is how we know,
this is how we prioritize.
If you're going to do this,
the most closely related thing
to OpenSSL crypto programming
we have is common crypto.
It's low-level C things.
If you're going to go
a little high level,
then security framework and
transforms are where you might go,
but usually people who are
using OpenSSL are using a
common crypto-like API anyway.
Now, if you're using SSL/TLS as
a secure transport,
our secure transport library is
My opinion,
the best SSL library that's out there,
it's held up to abuse better
than any of the others.
If you're using CF networking,
if you're using NSURL anything,
you're already doing it.
So if you are already using
NSURL and opening up an HTTPS,
"You're using secure transport.
You didn't have to do anything.
And similarly, if you go to CF network
and do SSL over that,
you're using our secure transport.
You don't have to do anything.
You already have."
There's a lot of people though that this
is not a good answer and we know that.
If you're writing a Unix application,
if you are doing something
that is going to be running
not on just our OSs but Linux,
OpenBSD, you name it.
Our APIs are not an option for you.
You might also already be using OpenSSL.
It might be the devil you know.
You know, yeah, okay, fine,
it's got a lot of problems, but,
you know, I've been dealing with them
for the last 10 years anyway.
Then, you know, stay where you are.
What you should do is go to macports.org.
That's where the most
recent version always is.
1.0.0d is already there.
I checked it.
Statically link the libraries.
That's what they want you to do anyway.
They say that when they do an update,
you should be recompiling
from source anyway.
If you need the command line tools
or other bits of OpenSSL that
aren't the libraries themselves,
include them in your bundle.
It's the correct thing to do.
It's what they recommend,
it's what we recommend now as
well because we don't like dialy
version skew anymore than you do.
So let me wrap up.
We are deprecating CDSA.
We are deprecating the
dialybs of OpenSSL.
We know that we do not
have complete replacements.
Please help us do what you need.
Bugreporter.apple.com.
I'll say that one last time.
Common Crypto is our low-level interface.
It's for bare-to-the-metal C programmers.
Transforms are our core foundation API.
They started off as being
a way to get fast crypto.
They build on GCD and core foundation
to give you order of magnitude
improvements in code size and speed.
For related sessions,
well there was a really good
security overview on Tuesday.
If you're watching this on video,
if you haven't seen that yet,
go watch it.
It's a good session.
And thank you very much.